the world tis week
politics
Elections to European Parliament saw the hard right making the most gains overall, though the European Peaple's Party, representing the centreright, and the Socialists and Democrats, on the centre-left, remain the biggest voting blocs. Green parties lost a quarter of their seatss. In France Marine Le Pen's right-wing National Rally took a third of the vote, more than double that of Emmanual Macron's party, Renaissance. In a surprise announcement, the French president dissolved the National Assembly and called a snap election. Mr Macron lost his parliamentary majority in 2022, and says the country now "needs a clear majority in serenity and harmony".
Germany's goberning coalition also got a shellacking at the election. The opposition Christian Democrats came first and the nationalist Alternative for Germany second, beating all three parties in the government. The SocialDemocrat, the party of Chancellor Olaf Scholz, took just 14%, its worst showing ever in a national poll. The ? biggest increase in support was among people aged 16-24, in an election where 16-year-olds were able to vote for the first time.

Business
The Federal Reserve left ite benchmark interest rate on hold at a range of between 5.25% and 5.5%. Markets were more interested in the latest moves along its path for rate reductions. The Fed now thinks it will cut just once this year, possibly as late as December, a big change from March, when it predicted three cuts. On June 6th the European Central Bank cut interest rates for the first time in five years, shaving a quarter of a percentage point off the deposit facility, to 3.75%.
America' labour market confounded expectations again, adding 272,000 jobs in May, far above analysts' forecasts and the second-biggest monthly addition of employees to the payrolls this year. The annual inflation rate fell to 3.3%.

业务
美联储将基准利率维持在5.25% - 5.5%的区间不变。市场对美联储降息路线上的最新举措更感兴趣。美联储现在认为今年只会降息一次，最迟可能在12月，这与3月份的预测大相径庭，当时美联储预计会降息三次。6月6日，欧洲央行五年来首次下调利率，将存款准备金率下调0.25个百分点，至3.75%。
美国的劳动力市场再次让人们感到困惑，5月份增加了27.2万个工作岗位，远高于分析师的预测，是今年第二大月度新增就业人数。年通货膨胀率下降到3.3%。