Introduction

Inventors have long dreamed of creating machines that think.
This desire dates back to at least the time of ancient Greece.
The mythical figures Pygmalian, Daedalus, and Hephaestus may all be interpreted as legendary inventors, and Glatea, Talos, and Pandora may all be regarded as artificial life.
When programmable computers were first conceived, people wondered whether such machines might become intelligent, over a hundred years before one was built.
Today, artificial intelligence ( AI ) is a thriving fiels with many practical applications and active research topics. We look to intelligent software to automate routine labor, understand speech or images, make diagnoses in medicine and support basic scientific research.
In the early days of artificial intelligence, the field rapidly tackled and solved problems that are intellectually difficult for human beings but relatively straightforward for ccomputers--problems that can be described by a list of formal, mathematical rules.
The true challenge to artificial intelligence proved to be solving the tasks that are easy for people to perform but hard for people to describe formally--problems that we solve intuitively, that feel automatic, like recognizing spoken words ot faces in images.
This book is about a solution to these more intuitive problems.
This silution is to allow computers to learn form experience and understand the word in terms of a hierarchy of concepts, with each concept defined through its relation to simpler concepts.
By gathering knowledge from experience, this approach avoids the need for human operators to formally specify all the knowledge that the computer needs.
The hierachy of concepts enables the computer to leatn complicated concepts by building them out of simpler ones.
If we draw a graph showing how these concepts are built on top of each one, the graph is deep, with many layers.
For this reason, we call this approach to AI deep learning.
Many of the early successes of AI took place in relatively sterile and formal environmnts and did not require computers to have much knowledge about the word.
For example, IBM's Deep Blue chess-playing system defeated world champion Garry Kasparov in 1997.
Chess is of course a very simple world, containing only sixty-four locations and thirty-two pieces that can move in only rigidly circumscribed ways.
Devising a successful chess strategy is a tremendous accomplishment, but the challenge is not due to the difficulty of describing the set of chess pieces and allowable moves to the computer.
Chess can be completely described by a very brief list of ompletely formal rules, easily provided ahead of time by the programmer.


